Israel was beginning to forge closer
ties with Arab countries under
agreements known as the Abraham Accords
Palestinians say these ignored their
situation and failed to address their
conflict with Israel and now there are
fears that the fighting could escalate
within the
region hamas's recent terrorist attacks
on Israel have led to questions about
how it managed to carry out an assault
of this scale and if the consequences
could spark wider conflict in the
region for many years Iran has been one
of the main supporters of Hamas and
other Palestinian islamist militant
groups providing both arms and financial
aid Teran expressed support for the
latest attacks but denied
involvement Hezbollah the Iran backed
and heavily armed organization in
neighboring Lebanon is also a supporter
of Hamas
Hamas and Hezbollah are deemed terrorist
organizations by both Germany and the
United States among
others hamas's latest attacks come as
relations have warmed between Israel and
some Arab countries the US has suggested
the attacks may have been in part an
attempt to undermine this
process Iran's longtime rival Saudi
Arabia had reportedly been close to
signing an agreement with Israel it was
hoped this could lead to more Arab and
predominantly Muslim countries forging
better relations with Israel the Saudi
government has said it will only
normalize ties if there is Major
progress towards the creation of a
Palestinian
State since 2020 Israel has also
normalized relations under the Abraham
Accords with the United Arab Emirates
Bahrain and Morocco they joined Jordan
and Egypt in having diplomatic relations
with Israel Sudan has also taken steps
towards normalized
relations for many Palestinians these
Agreements are seen as serving only the
interests of Israel and as an
abandonment of the Palestinian cause by
Arab
states we wanted to get the Israeli
perspective as well therefore DW's Hans
brunt interviewed Israel's ambassador to
Germany Ron proor here in Berlin this is
how that interview
went Ambassador proor there are people
who say that the events in Israel now
are comparable to 911 in the United
States is that a comparison you would
support the answer is yes from the shock
H but you know Saturday the 7th of
October
will be a day that is going to stay in
memory as a black day it's the deadliest
day that the state of Israel and the
nation state of the Jewish people have
ever encountered those images the state
state of Israel was basically
established in order for those images
never to happen we are going to react in
such a manner that Hamas is a terrorist
organization with a terrorist
infrastructure will not be there after
we finish turning to the situation now
in Israel at the moment the Gaza Strip
has been cut off from the outside
completely even including water and
electricity
that is uh impacting more than 2 million
people isn't that a little bit harsh
against more than 2 million people that
live there question I'm going to stop
you in me all gloves of off this is you
have to understand this is a paradigm
shift
between humanity and barbarism
civilization and beasts this is not a
cycle of violence this is not two sides
this is one side a terrorist
organization that has decided to wage
war against Israel and we will go after
them everywhere they are in order to
eradicate this infrastructure of Terror
that basically terrorizes not us only
Israel but the whole region but it uh
appears to be necessary to take this
fight into Gaza that will cause more
casualties both for the Israelis and for
the Palestinians is that price necessary
Israel will pay a high price if we go in
because we don't have another Choice
with our soldiers with our boys with our
girls a price in addition to the price
of what we have just paid we're going to
do that because we cannot even think of
living in this region where the own
neighborhood is looking so what about
peace what are the chances for some kind
of peace between Israel and the
Palestinians and for the Middle East as
a the whole no one thinks of Peace at
this stage we need to make sure that
Kamas is taken out believe me when
they're out there are many and you've
seen that in the region that want peace
we want peace at the end of the day we
are going to deal with it but now let's
go not go back we haven't finished this
we're not we're in the middle of morning
we are not thinking of anything else but
making sure that those who did it to us
will not be there but there has been
some progress on the Peace front in
recent months between Israel and some
Arab states and most recently there was
talk about some kind of agreement
between Israel and Saudi Arabia is all
that finished now first you understand
that it is not
coincidential that Iran and Hamas but
especially Iran saw this aona with Saudi
Arabia and decided to destroy it so it's
not
coincidential and
Kamas at this stage and
Iran we are now in the middle of War we
may have to make sure that those who did
it to us are going to be punished
severely after that I'm sure that
they're going to be many in the region
that are going to move forward in
creating a better Middle East and a
possible comprehensive peace but now
this is not the things that we're
talking about Ambassador proo thank you
very much for talking to
D and mid East analyst Shany rosan has
joins me in the studio for more shanni
welcome we heard the Israeli Ambassador
there speaking very emphatically about
going into Gaza in the form of an
invasion of some sort how much of that
is military necessity and how much of
that is political necessity well that's
a great question first of all this is
the the Gaza Playbook we're almost used
to you know we've had so many rounds of
uh attacks and counterattacks between
Israelis and and and Hamas that always
uh many times ended up also with with
inv with ground uh operations it's
always problematic um so on the one hand
Israel says it wants to rewrite the the
the the Playbook CU because the old one
obviously has been the way they see it
has been broken by Hamas but it's not
quite clear what is the new one um we
know from the ground there's no doubts
they are preparing for it we know also
they're very much wary of it and it's
not clear what shape it will take and
netan you were asking about the politics
is in a very right-wing government and
he needs to of course also the base you
see you see the people they want to feel
something is happening um he's very much
bound to show that Israel is doing
something um hopefully we hearing today
of a Unity government coming in he might
have more balanced uh more balanced
voices that might give him away for
other maybe alternatives for operation
if you're talking about a government
that is facing criticism for one of the
biggest intelligence failures I think in
50 years there hasn't been an
intelligence failure like this and
Netanyahu has talked about has compared
Hamas to Isis terrorists clearly
Netanyahu needs to show something some
action to the Israeli people and the
Israeli people expect that this the
immediate response is of course we've
seen The Siege on Gaza we see the the
heavy bombardments on Gaza the toll
death in Gaza is rising exponentially
almost every you know by the hour um
it's very much part of netanyahu's need
to show here we are doing something I
don't know if uh and I think many
experts agree that this is not yet the
turning point this is not yet giving the
effect that will mean that this time
things are going to end up differently
unlike what we've seen before one can
make the argument that the peace process
has been dead for quite some time does
this completely bury it I think think
it's early to to to say and even the
Ambassador himself said it might not
still be dead in the water it can be
that in a few months when this is done
in a certain way uh hopefully there's
still hope to get some negotiations uh
and diplomatic efforts on the you know
going and successful we'll leave it
there for the time being but thanks so
much for joining us in the studio Shan
rosanes the terrorist attack on Israel
is being discussed currently in
Germany's Parliament lawmakers are about
to observe a minute silence let's take
you straight to the German Parliament
the bundist right
now ladies and
gentlem the F president here on the
podium as well as the ambassador of
Israel
Excellency
d
thank you for finding the time to come
here during this difficult time for
you we condemn the inhuman Terror
attacks on Israel
severely since Saturday Hamas and other
terrorists have committed horrible
crimes against
Israel Terror this is
Terror like we've never had it before
[Applause]
online videos show barbaric violence
against families small children old
people during the holiday at home or in
the streets they had gathered against
people that were celebrating peacefully
at a music festival against um civilian
Society against soldiers against a whole
country images show murders hostages
taken sadistic
actions and they also show
people who celebrate this perfidious
Terror this inhumane brutality shocks us
deeply and it has to make all of us
ashamed and horrified it cannot be
justified by anything it has to stop
straight
[Applause]
away all hostages have to be liberated
straight away and I would like to say
very clearly that we do not accept any
support of those horrible cowardly
[Applause]
crimes accept those cruel crimes against
children women and men here in Germany
on the streets or online when they are
celebrated
here
[Applause]
do not accept any agreement with those
crimes that are being relativized
[Applause]
here there is only one possible opinion
condemn the Crimes by Hamas and we do
not accept any hostility towards Israel
and no anti-semitic
[Applause]
opinions and now more than ever before
we need to do everything we can to
protect our Jewish institutions and cens
from attacks Israeli security is German
reason of state and that's where we are
going to debate Israeli security and the
situation in the Middle East in the
bundestag as well tomorrow morning at
9:00 the chancellor Schulz is going to
give a declaration a governmental
declaration and our foreign minister
analina bbok is uh available for
questions from the bundes
Israel has the right to protect itself
and protect their population and defend
[Applause]
itself Ambassador
Excellency I can Ure theet the Israeli
government and population are full and
unlimited
uh support from the German bundist
[Applause]
tar we are at the side of our Israeli
friends and in the name of the German
bundist I would like to uh express our
deep
condolences we grieve together with you
and with the family of the
murdered in these dark hours our
thoughts are with you with the families
of victims with the injured and the
abducted
hostages that are being used as human
Shields and with the families and
friends that fear for
them
their unimaginable fear cannot be
expressed in words but you can be sure
that we are feeling with you
[Applause]
and now I would like to ask you all to
get up for a minute of solemn silence
for the
victims
for
thank
you ladies and
gentlemen those are very moving moments
here in the bundus
T as full as I've never seen
it and president
has expressed the solidarity of the
German population in the presence of
Israeli Ambassador hono who is standing
on the panel here next to the German
Federal president it's a reason of state
and Israel has the right to defend
itself and to protect the population Bas
has
expressed the full support of Germany
all all groups were represented here in
their full numbers and we can only hope
that this is going to
continue a of sence the German
Parliament just observed there for
before that that was preceded by the
president of the German bundestag beel
Bas uh laying out Germany's position as
best as she could she she talked about
the inhuman brutality that uh Germany
has seen that Israel has had to suffer
and that it can't be justified any
action such as that she also called for
all hostages to be released immediately
and she particularly said that uh any
celebration of uh these crimes uh will
not be accepted in Germany whether in
the online sphere or on the streets in
uh Germany we are also expecting a
statement from uh German foreign
minister andelina
Bok any moment now that's bbas the
German bundist talk president still
addressing the German Parliament she
also clarified rather announced that
tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning we are
expecting a so-called government
declaration from Chancellor Olaf Schultz
and I believe we are going to hear from
analena Bok the German foreign
minister right now there she
is
[Music]
colleagues given the particular
situation I would also like in the name
of my colleague Stephy lamp who is also
going to be questioned here I would like
to speak in her name as well ladies and
gentlemen
colleagues hundreds of young women and
men who were at a music festival
celebrating
life were chased by terrorists through
the desert and killed massacred old
people
families who were peacefully celebrating
Shabbat in their homes were brutally
attacked
killed mothers and small children were
beaten onto Jeeps humiliated and
abducted as
hostages what Israel has gone through in
those last days is barbaric it is
unbearable and I believe nobody here in
this room can understand the grief the
suffering of all those families and
people
entirely the action of
cannnot be justified by anything Israel
has the right towards their citizens
even the duty within international law
to protect itself against this horrible
Act of
Terror for Israel October 7th 2023 is a
deep cut the bloodiest day and the
history of the
country like the German Bund just
underlined we the German government are
firmly at the side of our Israeli
friends because Israeli security is a
German reason of
[Applause]
[Music]
state and towards
is have promised all our support in all
areas suffering of
civilians of innocent children men and
women is a part of the terror strategy
of Hamas Terror strategy suffering of
Israeli civilians and mainly by the
abducted hostages among which there are
some German
Nationals and double
nationalists this Terror
strategy is uh using those lives is
playing with them in a very brutal
manner is playing also with the life of
Palestinian women and children that
Hamas terrorists are using as human
Shields life is important to me to us in
this situation all contributions that we
can provide from outside together with
our partners and friends in consultation
with
we are
working
towards um the to avoid that the
terrorist script can become a reality
that means to do everything to stop this
perfidious game with
[Applause]
civilians and I am grateful for the
debate that you in Parliament had
yesterday on the Democratic parties
concerning the question of ongoing
support it would be wrong to stop vital
humanitarian Aid the provision of food
and water for families because that is
also part of the terrorist
script dear colleagues you are
aware that the federal government and
the EU
commission are
sending
scrutinizing their aid to the Palestine
territories and in this exceptional
situation we are reviewing them again
including humanitarian Aid in close
cooperation with the United
Nations it's also very important that
together with the UN we are doing
everything to create safe spaces for
women and children in
Gaza
different organization ations are
contributing to that
now but the main
priority
is the security of the state of Israel
and that's the focus of my talks of my
work with Partners in the
region different partners in the region
which we all need now and with the
partners in Europe and in the whole
world mainly our American friends to
avoid that
with their Terror can create a fire in
the region and to avoid adding fuel to
the fire and allow them to play the
script of Terror thank
you then I would start directly with a
questioning making a statement in uh the
German Parliament just uh moments back
she making she made it clear that what
Israel has gone through is barbaric
that's the word she used and she also
said that the actions of Hamas cannot in
any way be justified also clarifying
that Israel has a duty to protect itself
the comments there from analina Bok
German foreign minister we can head over
now to DW political correspondent Jula
sa Deli who's been listening in as well
Jula and Lena Bok also said that Germany
is firmly at the side of Israel I'd just
like to know from you what is the extent
of German support that Israel can
expect well Germany is has the security
of Israel as a reason of state is one of
the founding principles of the German
State and that has again been stated by
analena Bok just now but also in the
past few days from from the chancellor
Olaf schz and they have said they were
they will stand firmly at the side of
Israel uh they have said that Israel has
the right to defend itself to protect
its territory and its citizens within uh
the limits of international law and that
uh the priority right now is for Israel
to do just that we uh don't know whether
there has not been talk of whether uh
Germany will provide support in any
other way but for now it is uh standing
closely by the side of its allly uh the
foreign minister has said that she is in
close talks with uh Germany's allies but
other partners both in the Middle East
in the region but also across the world
in particular with the us to try to make
sure that this conflict does not
escalate that there is no fuel uh put on
the fire that is already burning and
that the situation is uh contained as
much as possible
as uh things uh at the moment are
looking critical both anina babok and
bundar president beel Bas talked about
uh German hostages that have been uh
taken in by Hamas clearly that must be a
source of a tremendous worry for the
German government how does the German
government intend to resolve that
situation well we've heard from Andel
bebook that uh the they are in uh
continuous talks with uh colleagues on
the ground but also with actors on the
ground who have open communication uh
ways to uh Hamas she has said that uh
given that Hamas is a terrorist
organization uh the communication is not
in any way easy and she has also called
on countries like Qatar and other uh
Gulf States to facilitate communication
with Hamas to try uh any way possible uh
to get these hostages out we haven't
heard of any concrete uh plans or any
concrete uh indications that a contact
has been established or that uh uh they
know exactly where the hostages are and
how they're going to get that out but a
conversations are ongoing but we have
heard from some of the families of the
people taking hostage that uh
communication with the foreign Ministry
hasn't always uh been very good it has
taken a while for them to come into
communication so uh for now uh all the
questions remain open there is one other
element that Ana Bok touched on and that
was the aspect of humanitarian Aid she
did say that it would be wrong to stop
humanitarian Aid to the Palestinian
territories because that would be part
of a so-called Terror script what did
she mean by
that what she meant is that uh the to
ensure that uh the people people uh in
Gaza receive the basic care that uh is
their right to receive to receive Food
to see receive Medical Care it is
important that uh Germany uh continues
to provide that support many many people
a majority of people in the Gaza Strip
are dependent on humanitarian Aid and uh
were uh this Aid not to continue
arriving the a thought is that the
terrorist group Hamas could use this as
a weapon to incite more hatred to incite
more violence what the German state is
now going to do is that it's going to
review where its development and
humanitarian Aid goes to make sure that
it does not end up in the wrong hands
and that this Aid goes directly to the
civilians in Gaza who need it the most
we'll leave it there for the time being
but thanks so much for joining us today
DW's political correspondent Jula selli
in Berlin thanks so
much